This is great!
The Foundation
Festival's finally here!
[RYOMA]
Happy festival day!
Love your stall's theme!
[ASAGI]
Thanks, Ryoma.
[MIYA]
Meow you doin'?
[RYOMA]
Ready to kick things off?
We're fur-sure ready!
It's exciting to think that,
in mere moments,
we'll be the cause
of people's smiles.
Well just hearing that
makes me smile.
Aren't mew sweet!
May your day be as
exceptional as you are.
[RYOMA]
Likewise!
[music playing]
Wait, that music...
You're too kind.
We, the Semroid Troupe,
will be performing
that very piece
on stage tonight!
And if you enjoyed it so
much you wish you could
listen it to it
whenever you liked,
then today's your lucky day!
For this music box
plays it note for note!
[music playing]
Take the sounds of the Semroid
Troupe everywhere you go!
Hi, Mister Serge.
Morning going well?
Yes indeed, very well.
People already love
your music box.
[RYOMA] It helps to have
awesome advertising.
I'm really indebted
to the Semroid Troupe.
And back at Keleban,
Dinome's Workshop
is mass-producing even more.
I spoke with Master Dinome
and we agreed to widen
the sales network soon.
Memories are being made today.
Those little souvenirs
preserve them all the better.
[RYOMA]
That's true.
Words can't describe
how happy I feel.
The crowd's already huge!
Hi, I can take whoever's next!
I'd like one semesa
pastry and that grain tea.
Most excellent selections.
Here, order up.
Ah, much obliged.
Here you are, ma'am.
Mister Dolce!
[DOLCE]
Is something the matter, sir?
The lines are kinda long.
Will you come help
manage them, please?
Certainly. Business
must be going well.
[RYOMA] Yep. People are
enjoying our unique options
as much as we'd hoped!
Sensational news.
Just leave the traffic to me.
Appreciate all the help.
[JANE]
Hey, boss!
Could you ask Miss Selma
for some more stir-fry
when you get a second, please?
[JANE] We're also running
low on grain tea.
Will you let Fina know?
Sure, I've got you.
Wash 'em good!
I'm coming through!
My bad. Sorry.
[laughs]
We're too busy for accidents!
[RYOMA] Could you cook up
more stir-fry, Miss Selma?
They're almost out.
I had a feeling it'd sell fast,
so I'm already working on it.
Thanks a lot for planning ahead.
Oh, we're also low on tea.
Could you brew another
pot or two, Miss Fina?
I certainly can!
Manager!
Look at this thing go!
It shreds veggies
and the work time!
Glad to see this tool is
working so well for you!
And to think it's really
made of slimes!
Speaking of slimes.
Hey, guys!
If you're hungry,
raise your slarm!
[WORGAN] Surprised you
find time to breathe, kid.
[RYOMA]
Mister Worgan!
Even got Beck
working his tail off.
We're all working hard because
we're glad we got hired.
Doing a great job just shows it!
They really have
been a big help.
Assisted with the prep
before the festival, too.
No.
They've been working non-stop.
They haven't had a single chance
to enjoy the festival yet!
Since you're here,
Mister Worgan,
could you please show
Beck and the other kids
around the festival?
Guess I don't see why not.
You hit your head or something?
We can't just abandon our posts
with a neverending crowd
of customers swarming our stall!
[CARLA] You could if we
picked up the slack, right?
[RYOMA]
No way!
What are you guys doing here?
Callum said you
might need a hand.
We're at your service, sir.
[BECK]
De-lish!
We recently hired some people,
so rest assured the Lenaf shop
is fully staffed right now.
The rookies all took to their
positions like cleaning slimes
to grime.
That's wonderful.
You all coming to help
is wonderful, too.
Seriously, thanks.
Everyone working the stall
is guaranteed a break!
[chattering]
[CAULKIN laughs]
Excellent point.
You can afford a break as well.
[RYOMA]
I was off yesterday.
Please just listen, sir.
You're a citizen of Gimul, too.
Go enjoy its biggest event.
Right.
Thanks for always lookin'
out, but before breaktime,
I have one more thing to do.
[PRENANCE]
Grandeur incarnate!
[RYOMA]
I'll say.
Oh, but aren't you chilly?
My barrier combined with my ice
magic keeps this place freezing.
I'm overwhelmed by your
sculpture's elegance,
so its beauty makes the
cold wholly unnoticeable!
Alas, my mouth can't
contain my heart.
I'll perform my very best
to equal the radiance
of this stunning work of art.
Um, great.
Really looking forward to it.
If you're here, I take it you
finished your last chore?
[RYOMA]
Uh-huh!
Good.
That means it's
breaktime for you, sir.
[SERGE]
Mister Ryoma! Hello yet again.
[RYOMA]
Hey.
You and Mister Pioro
having a good time?
We would have a better time
if you joined us for a chat.
Sure. I'm actually
free right now.
[SERGE] This grain tea
is tremendously popular.
Causing quite a "stir,"
in tea terms.
Yeah. The entire team's
upselling it when they can.
It's very nice.
Wow, that aroma!
It's just so unique compared
to the scent of other teas
and herbs.
I'm really flattered you're
so fond of this stuff,
Mister Serge.
Care to share where
you got the grains for it?
They all came from the hometown
of a few of my employees.
They had a whole bunch
left over this season.
There's more?
[MARIA] So merchants actually
want the grains from
our village?
Yes! They wanna try and
create a proper business
using grain-based teas
as their starter products!
Are you pulling our legs?
[RYOMA]
Nope.
Look at how well the grain tea's
been selling at our stall.
With Mister Serge and Mister
Pioro supporting this venture,
I know it'll be a success.
How could it be
anything less, right?
Oh, wow.
That'd make our entire
hometown's day, or year!
We can't thank you enough!
No need for thanks.
I didn't do anything,
but we can work out
all the details another day.
[GROUP] Sure! But we
really should thank you!
[RYOMA] Once their village
starts making a profit,
the younger residents won't
be forced to find work
so far away.
At least, I hope so.
[CARLA]
Manager!
It's time to take that break
we've been talking about!
Oh. Right.
Break starting now.
[ASAGI]
I side with Miss Carla.
You can't properly enjoy the
festival if you're working
the whole time.
[RYOMA]
True.
Plus, I'd be a hypocrite.
Have to practice what I
preach to all my employees.
[MIYA]
Thanks fur waiting!
Tasties are served!
There's no beating my
tenmusu and miso soup.
Can't wait to dig in!
Mm! It's even better
than the last time!
Some improvements have been
made since your previous sample.
They're really paw-pular
among the townsfolk.
Wow! I see why!
Gotta tell my
employees about this!
Almost feels like
a crime not to!
[crying]
Where'd Mommy go?
Poor little guy's lost, huh?
Peek-a-boo. I see you!
[ELIARIA]
You really blew up, didn't you?
I'll finally see Mister Ryoma!
[RYOMA]
I'll send more letters.
[ELIARIA]
These segments should be longer!
[RYOMA] Do you remember
where you last saw your mom?
Do you know where you live?
He could be from out of town.
I know I haven't seen
him around here.
[RYOMA]
Neither have I.
Lots of visitors thanks
to the festival,
so that's probably it.
Do you think maybe we should
take him to the town guards?
I'm sure his meow-ther
is looking for him, too.
[chuckles]
Look at that.
He's taken a liking to you.
[RYOMA]
Huh?
[THEO crying]
Let's go find your mom, okay?
I think I can handle
this on my own.
We're counting on mew!
[RYOMA]
I'm Ryoma Takebayashi.
What's your name?
[THEO]
Theo.
Well, Theo, did you come to
the festival with your mom?
Yeah.
Is this your first
festival ever?
Uh-huh!
This is my first one, too.
Really?
[RYOMA] Yep. I lived somewhere
else for a long time.
[THEO]
Where?
[RYOMA]
A place far away.
Very far.
A place called Earth, where I
worked for an exploitative
company in Japan.
Where I died, and by
the grace of the gods,
was reincarnated
here in Seilfall.
Then, I met Elia and the rest
of her wonderful family.
I left the comfort of my cave
and traveled with them.
Then came to the
mining town of Gimul
where I started up Bamboo
Forest Laundry Service.
I've come quite a ways,
now that I think about it.
Uh-- Oh. Just lost in thought.
[GLISSELA]
Whatcha doin' with a kid, kid?
What?
I'm helping him find his mom.
Figured taking him
to the guards' office
would be the safest bet.
Don't let this
old lady keep you.
[GLISSELA] You've really
established yourself as a true
citizen of Gimul.
Do you think so?
I do.
But I'm also curious
how town life compares
to the way you lived when
you were in the woods.
[RYOMA] I don't know if one's
better than the other.
The forest definitely
had its perks.
Judging from your
expression, I'd say it's fine.
Yeah. I guess it is.
[RYOMA] But life in
Gimul isn't bad either.
[THEO'S MOTHER]
Theo! I was worried sick!
[THEO]
Mommy!
Thanks so much for brining
my little boy back to me.
Welcome.
See ya, Theo! Bye-bye!
Bye-bye!
[RYOMA]
Yeah.
Fair to say life here
isn't bad at all.
[PRENANCE] The beast that
tormented the people lies
vanquished before me.
It will live among us
and follow a new path
now and forever more!
Come! Rejoice, one and all!
Let us celebrate this day!
[GROUP gasps]
[SELMA] Smells good, but what
exactly do you call this dish?
[RYOMA]
Fried Noodles.
What's neat about it is it can
be flavored a couple ways,
but I kept it simple and
just used salt this time.
It looks very appetizing!
I'll have to cook it for
lunch one of these days.
Make it a day that I'm around!
This should be enough
for the after party, right?
How much more can people eat?
[CALLUM]
Manager?
I haven't seen a single
Semroid Troupe member
since the end of the show.
Well, maybe the cleanup took a
little longer than they thought.
I'll go and check the stage.
[RYOMA]
What are they doing?
Ryoma!
Your troupe's amazing!
That really what
you came to tell us?
The after party starts soon,
and I wanna make
sure you're all there.
But what's with the statue?
This?
[RYOMA]
Is it divine or something?
[MAIYA]
Quite the rare sight, huh?
It's a statue of Manoailoa.
[RYOMA]
Manoailoa? Huh.
I remember that name
from one of the myths.
I haven't met them yet,
but they're definitely
a god of this world,
right up there with Gain
and the others.
I think that's the
god of wind, right?
Yes, indeed.
A glorious deity that
watches over us through
both gentle and powerful winds
that sweep across Seilfall.
They also just so happen
to be a god of travels
and the creative arts.
Which is why Manoailoa's
often worshiped
by traveling artists
from all walks of life!
So, we were dressing up
the statue a little bit more.
What for?
Well when we experience
anything that's memorable,
we buy a piece of
cloth in whatever town
the memorable thing happened in.
We have to travel light because
we're on the road so much,
but we can afford a piece
of fabric to express
our thanks to the god for
blessing us with great
experiences and encounters.
And we aren't the only ones.
It's a tradition all traveling
entertainers have.
Couldn't tell you where it
originated from, though.
Memories from travels.
[CARLA]
Listen up, everyone.
The manager has a few
words before we begin.
All right, sir.
The floor is yours.
Okay.
Thanks for your hard work!
Each of you made the festival
a success, so cheers to you!
[GROUP]
Cheers!
[JANE]
It's delicious!
[SERGE]
Yes.
[GROUP chattering]
Thanks a lot, man.
Today was so fun!
We bought tons of goodies
with the money we made
working your stall.
You took care of us.
You and your nifty slimes.
Aw.
Did you enjoy it, too?
You had better say yes.
Well, had to help
a kid find his mom,
but after that, I got
to have a little fun.
Just as you should.
By the way, thank you
for helping us out today.
Right when I got in a fix,
you showed up and solved it.
I'm actually rather
happy we came as well.
It kind of rejuvenated
me in a way.
And while I haven't been away
from this town that long,
I did feel a little nostalgic
once we were back here.
Ryoma.
Um, yes, Miss Maiya?
You wanna dance?
We could wrap up the
night with a quick show!
Do it! Do it!
A spectacular finale, yes?
[chattering]
Well, if I must.
It's just for fun.
No pressure.
Right. Gonna relax and enjoy!
[RYOMA]
Today was some day.
[RYOMA] I'll engrave it
in my memory forever.
[RYOMA]
More grain tea?
It's just that good.
Your dance and music were
wonderful, by the way.
It's nice of you to say that.
Um, so I kind of
have a tiny request?
[RYOMA] The Foundation
Festival became a day
that I won't soon forget.
To commemorate such an
extraordinary time in my life,
I asked Mister Serge to have
two special music boxes made.
One of which is included
with this letter.
It sounds beautiful.
[RYOMA] I am so, so glad
I came to Gimul.
I found a place I can call
home, a place I belong,
and I vow to continue
serving this community
however I can, whenever I can,
to the best of my ability.
Good for you.
Just reading that makes me want
to improve and push myself
harder so when the
two of us reunite,
you'll see with your own
eyes how far I've come.
[MIYABI]
Elia! Let's go!
'Kay!
[MAN A]
G'morning.
[RYOMA]
Same to you, sir!
[WOMAN B]
Nice weather, huh?
[RYOMA]
Real nice!
[RYOMA] Let's do our best,
just like always!
[RYOMA]
Morning, everyone!
[GROUP]
Good morning!
Nice to see you, boss!